Ad Ease is an ads and marketing based company helping businesses elicit maximum clicks @ minimum cost. AdEase is an ad infrastructure to help businesses promote themselves easily, effectively, and economically. The interplay of 3 AI modules - Design, Dispense, and Decipher, come together to make it this an end-to-end 3 step process digital advertising solution for all.
You are working in the Data Science team of Ad ease trying to understand the per page view report for different wikipedia pages for 550 days, and forecasting the number of views so that you can predict and optimize the ad placement for your clients. You are provided with the data of 145k wikipedia pages and daily view count for each of them. Your clients belong to different regions and need data on how their ads will perform on pages in different languages.

Dataset:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1mdgQscjqnCtdg7LGItomyK0abN6lcHBb

Data Dictionary:
There are two csv files given
train_1.csv: In the csv file, each row corresponds to a particular article and each column corresponds to a particular date. The values are the number of visits on that date.
The page name contains data in this format:
SPECIFIC NAME _ LANGUAGE.wikipedia.org _ ACCESS TYPE _ ACCESS ORIGIN
having information about the page name, the main domain, the device type used to access the page, and also the request origin(spider or browser agent)
Exog_Campaign_eng: This file contains data for the dates which had a campaign or significant event that could affect the views for that day. The data is just for pages in English.
There’s 1 for dates with campaigns and 0 for remaining dates. It is to be treated as an exogenous variable for models when training and forecasting data for pages in English

Concepts Tested:
Exploratory data analysis
Time Series forecasting- ARIMA, SARIMAX, and Prophet

Outline :
Importing the dataset and doing usual exploratory analysis steps like checking the structure & characteristics of the dataset
Checking null values and understanding their reason.
Understanding the page name format and splitting it to get different information.
Separating different values from it like title, language, access type, and access origin.
Visualizing the data and getting inferences from them
Converting the data to a format that can be fed to the Arima model (Pivoting etc)
Checking if the data is stationary
Dickey-Fuller test
Trying different methods for stationarity.
Decomposition of series.
Differencing the series.
Plotting the ACF and PACF plots
Give insights about the characteristics of the time series.
Modeling
Creating and training the Arima model
Getting the exogenous variable and using it to train a sarimax model
Use facebook prophet for forecasting
Finding a way(grid search / etc) to find the best params for at least 1 modeling approach.
Defining functions for all of the tasks.
Comparing results for all languages and creating inferences and recommendations from them
The MAPE in the range of 4-8%
