About Yulu

Yulu is India’s leading micro-mobility service provider, which offers unique vehicles for the daily commute. Starting off as a mission to eliminate traffic congestion in India, Yulu provides the safest commute solution through a user-friendly mobile app to enable shared, solo and sustainable commuting.

Yulu zones are located at all the appropriate locations (including metro stations, bus stands, office spaces, residential areas, corporate offices, etc) to make those first and last miles smooth, affordable, and convenient!

Yulu has recently suffered considerable dips in its revenues. They have contracted a consulting company to understand the factors on which the demand for these shared electric cycles depends. Specifically, they want to understand the factors affecting the demand for these shared electric cycles in the Indian market.

How you can help here?

The company wants to know:

Which variables are significant in predicting the demand for shared electric cycles in the Indian market?
How well those variables describe the electric cycle demands
Dataset:

Dataset Link: yulu_data.csv

Column Profiling:

datetime: datetime
season: season (1: spring, 2: summer, 3: fall, 4: winter)
holiday: whether day is a holiday or not (extracted from http://dchr.dc.gov/page/holiday-schedule)
workingday: if day is neither weekend nor holiday is 1, otherwise is 0.
weather:
1: Clear, Few clouds, partly cloudy, partly cloudy
2: Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist
3: Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light Rain + Scattered clouds
4: Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog
temp: temperature in Celsius
atemp: feeling temperature in Celsius
humidity: humidity
windspeed: wind speed
casual: count of casual users
registered: count of registered users
count: count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered

Concept Used:

Bi-Variate Analysis
2-sample t-test: testing for difference across populations
ANNOVA
Chi-square

Project Outline:

Import the dataset and do usual exploratory data analysis steps like checking the structure & characteristics of the dataset
Try establishing a relation between the dependent and independent variable (Dependent “Count” & Independent: Workingday, Weather, Season etc)
Select an appropriate test to check whether:
Working Day has effect on number of electric cycles rented
No. of cycles rented similar or different in different seasons
No. of cycles rented similar or different in different weather
Weather is dependent on season (check between 2 predictor variable)
Set up Null Hypothesis (H0)
State the alternate hypothesis (H1)
Check assumptions of the test (Normality, Equal Variance). You can check it using Histogram, Q-Q plot or statistical methods like levene’s test, Shapiro-wilk test (optional)
Please continue doing the analysis even If some assumptions fail (levene’s test or Shapiro-wilk test) but double check using visual analysis and report wherever necessary
Set a significance level (alpha)
Calculate test Statistics.
Decision to accept or reject null hypothesis.
Inference from the analysis


Define Problem Statement and perform Exploratory Data Analysis 
Definition of problem (as per given problem statement with additional views)
Observations on shape of data, data types of all the attributes, conversion of categorical attributes to 'category' (If required) , missing value detection, statistical summary.
Univariate Analysis (distribution plots of all the continuous variable(s) barplots/countplots of all the categorical variables)
Bivariate Analysis (Relationships between important variables such as workday and count, season and count, weather and count.
Illustrate the insights based on EDA
Comments on range of attributes, outliers of various attributes
Comments on the distribution of the variables and relationship between them
Comments for each univariate and bivariate plots
Hypothesis Testing :
2- Sample T-Test to check if Working Day has an effect on the number of electric cycles rented 
ANNOVA to check if No. of cycles rented is similar or different in different 1. weather 2. season
Chi-square test to check if Weather is dependent on the season 
